README.md, before:

# rsschool-devops-course-tasks

Repo for RS School AWS DevOps course

## Overview

This repository contains Terraform configuration files to set up AWS infrastructure, including an S3 bucket for storing Terraform state and an IAM role for GitHub Actions.

## Prerequisites

- [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) installed and configured
- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) installed
- A GitHub account

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:

```bash
1. git clone https://github.com/elian-cheng/rsschool-devops-course-tasks.git
2. cd rsschool-devops-course-tasks
```

2. **Configure the AWS CLI**:
   Ensure you have configured the AWS CLI with the credentials of your IAM user:

```bash
aws configure
```

3. **Set Up GitHub Secrets**:
   In your GitHub repository, navigate to Settings > Secrets and Variables > Actions. Add the following secrets:
   - AWS_ACCOUNT_ID: Your AWS account ID.
   - AWS_REGION: The AWS region (e.g., us-east-1).

# Terraform Configuration

## Variables

The Terraform configurations use the following variables:

- **aws_region**: The AWS region where resources will be deployed.
- **terraform_state_bucket**: The S3 bucket for storing Terraform state.
- **account_id**: Your AWS account ID.
- **github_org**: Your GitHub organization or username.
- **github_repo**: The name of your GitHub repository.

## File Structure

- **.github/workflows/terraform.yaml**: GitHub Actions workflow configuration.
- **main.tf**: Provider configuration and backend settings.
- **variables.tf**: Variable definitions.
- **s3.tf**: S3 bucket resource definition.
- **iam.tf**: IAM role resource definition.

## Workflow Overview

The GitHub Actions workflow consists of three jobs:

- **terraform-check**: Checks the formatting of Terraform files.
- **terraform-plan**: Initializes Terraform and creates an execution plan.
- **terraform-apply**: Applies the changes to the AWS infrastructure (only on push to main).

## Usage

To deploy the infrastructure:

1. Make changes to your Terraform files.
2. Push your changes to the main branch or create a pull request.
3. Monitor the Actions tab for the workflow run status.

## Testing Your Workflow

To verify that your GitHub Actions workflow works:

1. **Push Your Changes**:

   - Make any change (e.g., a comment in a README file) and push it to the main branch or create a pull request.

2. **Check the Workflow Run**:

   - Navigate to the Actions tab in your GitHub repository to view the list of workflow runs.
   - Click on the most recent run to view details, checking the status of each job.

3. **Verify Outputs**:
   - Ensure that the terraform plan job runs successfully and outputs the planned actions correctly.
   - If you're pushing to the main branch, check that terraform apply executes without errors.

Commit message:

feat: add K8s cluster basic networking infrastructure

README.md, after:

# rsschool-devops-course-tasks

Repo for RS School AWS DevOps course

## Overview

This repository contains Terraform configuration files to set up basic networking infrastructure for a Kubernetes cluster in AWS. The setup includes a VPC, public and private subnets, routing configurations, a NAT Gateway, and optional resources like a bastion host. An S3 bucket is used to store the Terraform state, and an IAM role is configured to allow GitHub Actions to interact with AWS.

## Prerequisites

- [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) installed and configured
- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) installed
- A GitHub account

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:

```bash
1. git clone https://github.com/elian-cheng/rsschool-devops-course-tasks.git
2. cd rsschool-devops-course-tasks
```

2. **Configure the AWS CLI**:
   Ensure you have configured the AWS CLI with the credentials of your IAM user:

```bash
aws configure
```

3. **Set Up GitHub Secrets**:
   In your GitHub repository, navigate to Settings > Secrets and Variables > Actions. Add the following secrets:
   - AWS_ACCOUNT_ID: Your AWS account ID.
   - AWS_REGION: The AWS region (e.g., us-east-1).
   - AWS_EC2_PRIVATE_KEY: private key to connect to private subnet instances from bastion host

# Terraform Configuration

## Variables

The Terraform configurations use the following variables:

- **aws_region**: The AWS region where resources will be deployed.
- **terraform_state_bucket**: The S3 bucket for storing Terraform state.
- **account_id**: Your AWS account ID.
- **github_org**: Your GitHub organization or username.
- **github_repo**: The name of your GitHub repository.
- **vpc_cidr**: CIDR block for the VPC.
- **public_subnet_cidrs**: CIDR blocks for the public subnets.
- **private_subnet_cidrs**: CIDR blocks for the private subnets.
- **private_key**: The private key used for SSH access to the private instance.

## File Structure

- **.github/workflows/terraform.yml**: GitHub Actions workflow configuration.
- **main.tf**: Provider configuration and backend settings.
- **variables.tf**: Variable definitions.
- **vpc.tf**: VPC definition.
- **subnets.tf**: Subnets definitions.
- **sg.tf**: Security groups definitions.
- **routing.tf**: Routes definitions.
- **nacl.tf**: Network ACL definitions.
- **ig.tf**: Internet gateway definition.
- **bastion.tf**: Bastion host definition.
- **ec2-private.tf**: Private instance definition (in private subnet).
- **outputs.tf**: Resources outputs.

## Workflow Overview

The GitHub Actions workflow consists of three jobs:

- **terraform-check**: Checks the formatting of Terraform files.
- **terraform-plan**: Initializes Terraform and creates an execution plan.
- **terraform-apply**: Applies the changes to the AWS infrastructure (only on push to main).

## Usage

To deploy the infrastructure:

1. Make changes to your Terraform files.
2. Push your changes to the main branch or create a pull request.
3. Monitor the Actions tab for the workflow run status.

## Testing Your Workflow

To verify that your GitHub Actions workflow works:

1. **Push Your Changes**:

   - Make any change (e.g., a comment in a README file) and push it to the main branch or create a pull request.

2. **Check the Workflow Run**:

   - Navigate to the Actions tab in your GitHub repository to view the list of workflow runs.
   - Click on the most recent run to view details, checking the status of each job.

3. **Verify Outputs**:
   - Ensure that the terraform plan job runs successfully and outputs the planned actions correctly.
   - If you're pushing to the main branch, check that terraform apply executes without errors.
